A JDK short for Java Development Kit JDK.
And so the name implies that it's something we need to develop Java applications.
Now there are two things you need to run Java code.
You need a Java compiler to compile your code and a Java runtime to run the compiled code.
And that's why a JDK provides a compiler, a runtime and a lot of other things.
So in this video, we're going to install a JDK from something called Amazon Coretta.
All right.
Amazon credit is just a distribution which once installed does the work of setting up a JDK in your
computer.
Basically, all you need to do is install it and it's going to do the heavy lifting.
So to start in this lesson, I need you to click the link in the resources.
I'll give you a couple of seconds to pause the video and do that.
The links should take you to the Amazon Credo page.
We're going to start by scrolling down to the Mac platform.
In choosing the first installer.
You can go ahead and pause the video until you're finished downloading it.
All right.
Once you download your installer, go ahead and open it.
And now just go through every step in the installation wizard.
Here you'd put in your computer password?
Nothing too hard.
And it should take a couple of seconds to install.
There you go.
That was pretty quick.
Now you have a JDK installed in your computer.
We can go ahead and move the installer to trash.
Now to make sure we install the JDK, we can check for it.
Namely, we're going to check for a Java compiler and a Java runtime since we know that's what a JDK
is composed of.
So to check if the installation worked.
Open the terminal from your launchpad or any way you want.
Really?
But just look for the terminal.
Now the first thing we're going to check for is a compiler.
So right.
Java C, which stands for Java compiler.
Dash version.
And press enter.
If a version shows up and it does, for me that means you have a Java compiler.
This shows me how the job of compiler version 11 and now I write Java Dash version.
This checks for a Java runtime.
And once again, since a version shows up for me, this means my computer does have a working Java runtime
thanks to Amazon curto.
And if all goes well, then you're all set up.
And so in this lesson you installed a JDK.
Now your computer can compile and run code.